apps/pic32mz_da_curiosity/readme.md, before:

---
title: Curiosity PIC32MZ DA Development Board
parent: Reference Applications
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 3
---
# Curiosity PIC32MZ DA Development Board

This folder contains the MPLAB® Harmony 3 reference applications developed on [Curiosity PIC32MZ DA Development Board]( ).


* [Getting Started](./pic32mzda_getting_started/readme.md)
* [SD Card USB Audio Player](./pic32mzda_sdcard_usb_audio_player/readme.md)


### **Note:**
The applications in this repository are an alternative source of reference involving integration of multiple technologies, extending hardware capabilities and demonstrating specific MCU features.
Peripheral/Technology specific applications are available in technology repositories like [csp](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp), [core](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core), [usb](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb), [net](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net), [audio](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio), [gfx_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps), etc

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated demo list in board specific readme.md. M32MM-451

apps/pic32mz_da_curiosity/readme.md, after:

---
title: Curiosity PIC32MZ DA Development Board
parent: Reference Applications
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 3
---
# Curiosity PIC32MZ DA Development Board

This folder contains the MPLAB® Harmony 3 reference applications developed on [Curiosity PIC32MZ DA Development Board]().

|SI No| Demo Name | Download Link |
| --- | --- | -- |
| 1 | [Getting Started](./pic32mzda_getting_started/readme.md) | [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/pic32mzda_getting_started.zip) |
| 2 | [SD Card USB Audio Player](./pic32mzda_sdcard_usb_audio_player/readme.md) | [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/pic32mzda_sdcard_usb_audio_player.zip) |


### More Application Demos

Following is the list of application demos on **Curiosity PIC32MZ DA Development Board** and other Development Boards/Kits having the same part number **(PIC32MZ2064DAR176)** in MPLAB Harmony v3 Repositories.

**Note:** To get a demo listed below, go to the main page of the repository (Click on the Repo Name) and then click **Code** button to clone or download as zip file. The repo can also be downloaded using **MPLAB Harmony Content Manager** by following [these](https://microchip-mplab-harmony.github.io/contentmanager/) instructions.  



[comment]:#ListStart



#### Repo Name: [gfx_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps)

|SI No| Demo Name | MPLAB X Project Name |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | [legato_climate_control](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps/tree/master/apps/legato_climate_control) | legato_cc_mzda_cu_tm5000.X |
| 2 | [legato_dashboard](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps/tree/master/apps/legato_dashboard) | legato_db_mzda_cu_tm5000.X |


[comment]:#ListEnd
