apps/pic32cm_ls00_cnano/pic32cm_ls00_map_examples/begin/tcc_synchronous_pwm_channels/readme.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Reference Applications
parent: PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit
title: TCC PWM generation
nav_order: 1
---

<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# TCC PWM generation on PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit
<h2 align="center"> <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/releases/latest/download/pic32cm_ls00_cnano_getting_started.zip " > Download </a> </h2>

-----
## Description:

> TCC module is configured to generate synchronous 2 or 3 phase PWM signals with dead time. The duty cycle of the PWM signals is updated in the period interrupt handler.


## Modules/Technology Used:
- Peripheral Modules
	- TCC0
	- PM
	- EVSYS
	- NVMCTRL
	- PORT

The MCC Harmony project graph would look like this;
	
<img src = "images/project_graph.png" width="550" height="400" align="middle">	

## Hardware Used:

- [PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/EV41C56A)
- [Saleae Logic Analyzer Kit](https://www.saleae.com/)

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:</span>  

Refer [Project Manifest](./firmware/src/config/default/harmony-manifest-success.yml) present in harmony-manifest-success.yml under the project folder *firmware\systick_periodic_timeout\src\config\pic32cm_ls00_cnano*  
- Refer the [Release Notes](../../../release_notes.md#development-tools) to know the **MPLAB X IDE** and **MCC** Plugin version. Alternatively, [Click Here](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/blob/master/release_notes.md#development-tools).

<span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommended to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with. </span> To download original version of MPLAB Harmony v3 packages, refer to document [How to Use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Project Manifest Feature](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How-to-Use-the-MPLAB-Harmony-v3-Project-Manifest-Feature-DS90003305.pdf)

## Setup:
- Connect the PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit to the Host PC as a USB Device through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B USB (Debug USB) port  
- To establish the connection with the Saleae Logic Analyzer to the Host PC

- **Pins details**:
|Signal Name| Pad   |
|-----------|-------|
| ch0-PWMH  | PA08  |
| ch0-PWML  | PA09  |
| ch1-PWMH  | PA10  |
| ch1-PWML  | PA14  |
| ch2-PWMH  | PA15  |
| ch2-PWML  | PA16  |
|||

  <img src = "images/LS00_cnano_setup.png">

## Programming hex file:
The pre-built hex file can be programmed by following the below steps.  

### Steps to program the hex file
- Open MPLAB X IDE
- Close all existing projects in IDE, if any project is opened.
- Go to File -> Import -> Hex/ELF File
- In the "Import Image File" window, Step 1 - Create Prebuilt Project, Click the "Browse" button to select the prebuilt hex file
- Select Device has "PIC32CM5164LS00048"
- Ensure the proper tool is selected under "Hardware Tool"
- Click on Next button
- In the "Import Image File" window, Step 2 - Select Project Name and Folder, select appropriate project name and folder
- Click on Finish button
- In MPLAB X IDE, click on "Make and Program Device" Button. The device gets programmed in sometime


## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Open the project (tcc\firmware\tcc_timer_mode) in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Open the Saleae logic application on your PC (from the Windows® Start menu by pressing the Start button)
- Observe the pwm frequency to be 10 KHz

## Logic Analyzer Output:
- The following high-side and low-side PWM waveforms are displayed on the Logic Analyzer
- Observe the dead time between the high side and the low side

   <img src = "images/LS00_cnano_output.png" width="800" height="500" align="middle">

## Comments:
- Reference Training Module: 
	- [Getting Started Application on PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:pic32cm-ls00-cnano-getting-started-training-module)
- Reference Application Note: 
	- [Getting Started with the PIC32CM LE00/LS00/LS60 Curiosity Pro Board](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/MCU32/ApplicationNotes/ApplicationNotes/AN4511-Getting-Started-with-the-PIC32CM-LE00-LS00-LS60-Curiosity-Pro-Board-DS00004511.pdf)
	- [PIC32CM LS00/LS60 Security Reference Guide](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/MCU32/ApplicationNotes/ApplicationNotes/AN3992-PIC32CM-LS00-LS60-Security-Reference-Guide-DS00003992.pdf)
- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony.
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Setup_MPLAB_%20Harmony_v3_Software_Development_Framework_DS90003232C.pdf)
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)  
	- <span style="color:blue"> **MPLAB Harmony v3 is also configurable through MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC). Refer to the below links for specific instructions to use MPLAB Harmony v3 with MCC.**</span>
		- [Create a new MPLAB Harmony v3 project using MCC](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:getting-started-training-module-using-mcc)
		- [Update and Configure an Existing MHC-based MPLAB Harmony v3 Project to MCC-based Project](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:update-and-configure-existing-mhc-proj-to-mcc-proj)
		- [Getting Started with MPLAB Harmony v3 Using MPLAB Code Configurator](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdhltTWaDp0)
		- [MPLAB Code Configurator Content Manager for MPLAB Harmony v3 Projects](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PRewTzrI3iE)	

## Revision:
- v1.7.0 - Released demo application

Commit message:

[APPS_DOCS] Updated the TCC Synchronous PWM Channels Demo on PIC32CM LS00 CNANO map examples | M32MM-2528

apps/pic32cm_ls00_cnano/pic32cm_ls00_map_examples/begin/tcc_synchronous_pwm_channels/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Reference Applications
parent: PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit
title: TCC PWM generation
nav_order: 1
---

<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# TCC PWM generation on PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit
<h2 align="center"> <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/releases/latest/download/pic32cm_ls00_cnano_getting_started.zip " > Download </a> </h2>

-----
## Description:

> The Timer Counter for Control Applications (TCC) module is configured to generate synchronous 2 or 3 phase PWM signals with dead time. The duty cycle of the PWM signals is updated in the period interrupt handler.


## Modules/Technology Used:
- Peripheral Modules
	- TCC0
	- PM
	- EVSYS
	- NVMCTRL
	- PORT

The MCC Harmony project graph would look like this:
	
<img src = "images/project_graph.png" width="550" height="400" align="middle">	

## Hardware Used:

- [PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/EV41C56A)
- [Saleae Logic Analyzer Kit](https://www.saleae.com/)

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:</span>  

Refer [Project Manifest](./firmware/tcc_timer_mode/src/config/pic32cm_ls00_cnano/harmony-manifest-success.yml) present in harmony-manifest-success.yml under the project folder *firmware\tcc_timer_mode\src\config\pic32cm_ls00_cnano*  
- Refer the [Release Notes](../../../release_notes.md#development-tools) to know the **MPLAB X IDE** and **MCC** Plugin version. Alternatively, [Click Here](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/blob/master/release_notes.md#development-tools).

<span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommended to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with. </span> To download original version of MPLAB Harmony v3 packages, refer to document [How to Use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Project Manifest Feature](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How-to-Use-the-MPLAB-Harmony-v3-Project-Manifest-Feature-DS90003305.pdf)

## Setup:
- Connect the PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit to the Host PC as a USB Device through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B USB (Debug USB) port  
- To establish the connection with the Saleae Logic Analyzer to the Host PC

- **Pins details**:
|Signal Name| Pad   |
|-----------|-------|
| ch0-PWMH  | PA08  |
| ch0-PWML  | PA09  |
| ch1-PWMH  | PA10  |
| ch1-PWML  | PA14  |
| ch2-PWMH  | PA15  |
| ch2-PWML  | PA16  |
|||

  <img src = "images/LS00_cnano_setup.png">

## Programming hex file:
The pre-built hex file can be programmed by following the below steps.  

### Steps to program the hex file
- Open MPLAB X IDE
- Close all existing projects in IDE, if any project is opened.
- Go to File -> Import -> Hex/ELF File
- In the "Import Image File" window, Step 1 - Create Prebuilt Project, Click the "Browse" button to select the prebuilt hex file
- Select Device has "PIC32CM5164LS00048"
- Ensure the proper tool is selected under "Hardware Tool"
- Click on Next button
- In the "Import Image File" window, Step 2 - Select Project Name and Folder, select appropriate project name and folder
- Click on Finish button
- In MPLAB X IDE, click on "Make and Program Device" Button. The device gets programmed in sometime


## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Open the project (tcc_synchronous_pwm_channels\firmware\tcc_timer_mode) in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Open the Saleae logic application on your PC (from the Windows® Start menu by pressing the Start button)
- Observe the PWM frequency to be 10 KHz

## Logic Analyzer Output:
- The following high-side and low-side PWM waveforms are displayed on the Logic Analyzer
- Observe the dead time between the high side and the low side

   <img src = "images/LS00_cnano_output.png" width="800" height="500" align="middle">

## Comments:
- Reference Training Module: 
	- [Getting Started Application on PIC32CM LS00 Curiosity Nano+ Touch Evaluation Kit](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:pic32cm-ls00-cnano-getting-started-training-module)
- Reference Application Note: 
	- [Getting Started with the PIC32CM LE00/LS00/LS60 Curiosity Pro Board](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/MCU32/ApplicationNotes/ApplicationNotes/AN4511-Getting-Started-with-the-PIC32CM-LE00-LS00-LS60-Curiosity-Pro-Board-DS00004511.pdf)
	- [PIC32CM LS00/LS60 Security Reference Guide](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/MCU32/ApplicationNotes/ApplicationNotes/AN3992-PIC32CM-LS00-LS60-Security-Reference-Guide-DS00003992.pdf)
- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony.
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Setup_MPLAB_%20Harmony_v3_Software_Development_Framework_DS90003232C.pdf)
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/MCU32/ProductDocuments/SupportingCollateral/How-to-Build-an-Application-by-Adding-a-New-PLIB-Driver-or-Middleware-to-an-Existing-MPLAB-Harmony-v3-Project-DS90003253.pdf)  
	- <span style="color:blue"> **MPLAB Harmony v3 is also configurable through MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC). Refer to the below links for specific instructions to use MPLAB Harmony v3 with MCC.**</span>
		- [Create a new MPLAB Harmony v3 project using MCC](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:getting-started-training-module-using-mcc)
		- [Update and Configure an Existing MHC-based MPLAB Harmony v3 Project to MCC-based Project](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:update-and-configure-existing-mhc-proj-to-mcc-proj)
		- [How to Set up the Tools Required to Get Started with MPLAB® Harmony v3 and MCC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0rNFSlsVwVw)
		- [MPLAB Code Configurator Content Manager for MPLAB Harmony v3 Projects](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PRewTzrI3iE)	

## Revision:
- v1.7.0 - Released demo application
