apps/pic32mz_ef_curiosity_v2/msd_multiple_luns/docs/readme.md, before:


![Microchip logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/images/microchip_logo.png)
![Harmony logo small](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png)
# USB MSD with Multiple Drives Application on Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board
-----
## Description

>  This application demonstrates the creation of a USB device with multiple drives or logical
    units (LUN). The storage media - SD Card, acts as one drive, and the internal flash memory
    (NVM) acts as the second drive. Data transfer between a computer and the logical units 
    (SD Card / NVM) takes place through USB MSD class.When connected to a USB Host (PC) both the
    SD Card and the NVM appear as two separate drives on the Host PC.
    

## Modules/Technology Used:

- Peripheral Modules      
	- Core Timer
- Driver Modules	
    - NVM driver
    - SDSPI driver
    - Memory Driver
- System Service Libraries	
	- File System
- Middleware Libraries		
	- USB Device stack

## Hardware Used:

- [Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320209)   
- [MICROSD CLICK from MikroElektronika](http://www.mikroe.com/click/microsd/)
- Micro SD Card

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> *This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:*</span>  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.5.2](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.5.2)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "core" repo v3.5.2](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core/releases/tag/v3.5.2)          
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.5.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.5.0)  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.3.3](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.3.3)   
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "bsp" repository v3.5.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/bsp/releases/tag/v3.5.0)
 -  MPLAB Harmony Configurator Plugin v3.4.0
 - [MPLAB X IDE v5.30](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
 - [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v2.30](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)
 - [MPLAB X IPE v5.30](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-integrated-programming-environment)  
<span style="color:blue"> *Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommend to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with.* </span>  

## Setup:
- Mount the microSD click board on the mikro bus 2 interface (J306) on Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board
- Insert a micro SD card into the microSD click board card slot
- Power the Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board from a Host PC through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port (J700)
- Connect the Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board to the Host PC as a USB Device through a second Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port (J201)

<img src = "images/msd_multiple_luns_demo_setup.jpg" width="900" height="400" align="middle">

## Programming binary/hex file:
- If you are not interested in installing development tools. The pre-built binary/hex file can be programmed to the target
	### Steps to program the hex file using MPLAB X IPE
	- Open MPLAB X IPE
	- Select Device has "PIC32MZ2048EFM144"
	- Power the Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board from a Host PC through a Type-A male to Micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port (J105)
	- Once Power cable is connected, "Curiosity/Starter Kits PKOB4" hardware tool is identified as a programmer
	- Browse to hex file (msd_multiple_luns_hex_file.hex)
	- Click on program button. The device gets programmed in sometime
	- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Open the project (msd_multiple_luns\firmware\pic32mz_ef_curiosity_v2.X) in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "Curiosity/Starter Kits PKOB4" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Reset or power cycle the devcie
- Wait for the host computer to read the contents of the two media (SD Card and NVM)
- The device should appear as two new drives on the your personal computer
- The NVM media should appear as "Drive Name" and should have a sample “FILE.txt” file
	- The drive name for the SD card media depends on the micro SD card vendor. The drives can then be used to read or write files
    - LED3 illuminates once Curiosity 2.0 board is enumerated as a Mass Storage Device by the USB host and LED2 will be illuminated when USB is not plugged.
	- **Note:** Reprogramming the development board will cause any stored files in the NVM media to be erased


## Comments:
- While formatting the SD card, change allocation unit size to 32K. This helps in reading the contents of the SD card faster.
   (To change allocation unit size, Right click on Drive > Select Format > change Allocation unit size)
- This application is developed by applying a patch (available in folder "msd_multiple_luns\firmware\usb_repo_patch") to MPLAB Harmony v3 "usb" repository. 
   If you need to reconfigure or regenerate this demo using MHC, please refer the "Notes.txt" file under "msd_multiple_luns\firmware\usb_repo_patch" folder
- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony. 
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en1000821) 
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)     
- The application is available on MPLAB Harmony v3 GitHub repository [reference_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/tree/master/apps/pic32mz_ef_curiosity_v2/msd_multiple_luns)              

## Revision: 
- v1.0 released demo application

Commit message:

[APPS_DOCS] Updated MPLAB Harmony 3 reference_apps repository documentation according to Harmony 3 next gen documentation format. M32MM-451

apps/pic32mz_ef_curiosity_v2/msd_multiple_luns/docs/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Reference Application Examples
parent: Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board Reference Application Examples
title: USB MSD with Multiple Drives
nav_order: 4
---
<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# USB MSD with Multiple Drives Application on Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board
-----
## Description

>  This application demonstrates the creation of a USB device with multiple drives or logical
    units (LUN). The storage media - SD Card, acts as one drive, and the internal flash memory
    (NVM) acts as the second drive. Data transfer between a computer and the logical units 
    (SD Card / NVM) takes place through USB MSD class.When connected to a USB Host (PC) both the
    SD Card and the NVM appear as two separate drives on the Host PC.
    

## Modules/Technology Used:

- Peripheral Modules      
	- Core Timer
- Driver Modules	
    - NVM driver
    - SDSPI driver
    - Memory Driver
- System Service Libraries	
	- File System
- Middleware Libraries		
	- USB Device stack

## Hardware Used:

- [Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320209)   
- [MICROSD CLICK from MikroElektronika](http://www.mikroe.com/click/microsd/)
- Micro SD Card

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> *This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:*</span>  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.5.2](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.5.2)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "core" repo v3.5.2](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core/releases/tag/v3.5.2)          
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.5.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.5.0)  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.3.3](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.3.3)   
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "bsp" repository v3.5.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/bsp/releases/tag/v3.5.0)
 -  MPLAB Harmony Configurator Plugin v3.4.0
 - [MPLAB X IDE v5.30](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
 - [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v2.30](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)
 - [MPLAB X IPE v5.30](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-integrated-programming-environment)  
<span style="color:blue"> *Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommended to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with.* </span>  

## Setup:
- Mount the microSD click board on the mikro bus 2 interface (J306) on Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board
- Insert a micro SD card into the microSD click board card slot
- Power the Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board from a Host PC through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port (J700)
- Connect the Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board to the Host PC as a USB Device through a second Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port (J201)

<img src = "images/msd_multiple_luns_demo_setup.jpg" width="900" height="400" align="middle">

## Programming binary/hex file:
- If you are not interested in installing development tools. The pre-built binary/hex file can be programmed to the target
	### Steps to program the hex file using MPLAB X IPE
	- Open MPLAB X IPE
	- Select Device has "PIC32MZ2048EFM144"
	- Power the Curiosity PIC32MZ EF 2.0 Development Board from a Host PC through a Type-A male to Micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port (J105)
	- Once Power cable is connected, "Curiosity/Starter Kits PKOB4" hardware tool is identified as a programmer
	- Browse to hex file (msd_multiple_luns_hex_file.hex)
	- Click on program button. The device gets programmed in sometime
	- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Open the project (msd_multiple_luns\firmware\pic32mz_ef_curiosity_v2.X) in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "Curiosity/Starter Kits PKOB4" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Reset or power cycle the devcie
- Wait for the host computer to read the contents of the two media (SD Card and NVM)
- The device should appear as two new drives on the your personal computer
- The NVM media should appear as "Drive Name" and should have a sample “FILE.txt” file
	- The drive name for the SD card media depends on the micro SD card vendor. The drives can then be used to read or write files
    - LED3 illuminates once Curiosity 2.0 board is enumerated as a Mass Storage Device by the USB host and LED2 will be illuminated when USB is not plugged.
	- **Note:** Reprogramming the development board will cause any stored files in the NVM media to be erased


## Comments:
- While formatting the SD card, change allocation unit size to 32K. This helps in reading the contents of the SD card faster.
   (To change allocation unit size, Right click on Drive > Select Format > change Allocation unit size)
- This application is developed by applying a patch (available in folder "msd_multiple_luns\firmware\usb_repo_patch") to MPLAB Harmony v3 "usb" repository. 
   If you need to reconfigure or regenerate this demo using MHC, please refer the "Notes.txt" file under "msd_multiple_luns\firmware\usb_repo_patch" folder
- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony. 
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en1000821) 
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)     
- The application is available on MPLAB Harmony v3 GitHub repository [reference_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/tree/master/apps/pic32mz_ef_curiosity_v2/msd_multiple_luns)              

## Revision: 
- v1.0 released demo application
