apps/sam_d21_cnano/readme.md, before:

---
title: SAM D21 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit
parent: Reference Applications
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 4
---
# SAM D21 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit

This folder contains the MPLAB® Harmony 3 reference applications developed on [SAM D21 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320119).   

* [Getting Started](./samd21n_getting_started/readme.md)
* [Fitness Tracker](./fitness_tracker/readme.md)
* [Location Tagged SOS](./location_sos/readme.md)
* [BLE  Weather Station and Motion Sensor](./ble_weather_station/readme.md)
* [Amazon Alexa Connect (ACK) kit port, OTA and Applications](./samd21_amazon_ack/readme.md)
  - **ACK based smart applications**
    - [Hello World](./samd21_amazon_ack/applications/HelloWorld/readme.md)   
    - [Microwave](./samd21_amazon_ack/applications/Microwave/readme.md)   
    - [Smart Light](./samd21_amazon_ack/applications/SmartLight/readme.md)   
    - [Dash Replenishment](./samd21_amazon_ack/applications/DashReplenishment/readme.md)   
  - [OTA Bootloader](./samd21_amazon_ack/bootloader/readme.md)
### **Note:**
The applications in this repository are an alternative source of reference involving integration of multiple technologies, extending hardware capabilities and demonstrating specific MCU features.
Peripheral/Technology specific applications are available in technology repositories like [csp](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp), [core](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core), [usb](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb), [net](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net), [audio](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio), [gfx_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps), etc

Commit message:

[APPS_DOC] Added SAMD21 CNANO AVR and PIC to SAMD21 migration demo and readme
M32MM-561

apps/sam_d21_cnano/readme.md, after:

---
title: SAM D21 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit
parent: Reference Applications
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 4
---
# SAM D21 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit

This folder contains the MPLAB® Harmony 3 reference applications developed on [SAM D21 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/DM320119).   

* [Getting Started](./samd21n_getting_started/readme.md)
* [Fitness Tracker](./fitness_tracker/readme.md)
* [Location Tagged SOS](./location_sos/readme.md)
* [BLE  Weather Station and Motion Sensor](./ble_weather_station/readme.md)
* [Amazon Alexa Connect (ACK) kit port, OTA and Applications](./samd21_amazon_ack/readme.md)
  - **ACK based smart applications**
    - [Hello World](./samd21_amazon_ack/applications/HelloWorld/readme.md)   
    - [Microwave](./samd21_amazon_ack/applications/Microwave/readme.md)   
    - [Smart Light](./samd21_amazon_ack/applications/SmartLight/readme.md)   
    - [Dash Replenishment](./samd21_amazon_ack/applications/DashReplenishment/readme.md)   
  - [OTA Bootloader](./samd21_amazon_ack/bootloader/readme.md)
* [Application migration from 8-bit PIC18F to 32-bit SAM D21](./pic18f_to_samd21_migration/readme.md)
* [Application migration from 8-bit AVR to 32-bit SAM D21](./atmega4809_to_samd21_migration/readme.md)
### **Note:**
The applications in this repository are an alternative source of reference involving integration of multiple technologies, extending hardware capabilities and demonstrating specific MCU features.
Peripheral/Technology specific applications are available in technology repositories like [csp](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp), [core](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core), [usb](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb), [net](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net), [audio](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio), [gfx_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps), etc
