apps/sam_e51_cnano/same51n_mikroe_click/gsm_gps/readme.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Reference Applications
parent: SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit
title: GSM GPS Click Example
nav_order: 16
---

<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# GSM GPS Click example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit
<h2 align="center"> <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/releases/latest/download/gsm_gps.zip" > Download </a> </h2>

-----
## Description:

> The application demonstrates sending out a location-tagged SMS on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit using GSM GPS Click board.

 ## Modules/Technology Used:
- Peripheral Modules
	- EIC
	- SYSTICK
	- GPIO
	- SERCOM (USART)

## Hardware Used:

- [SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/EV76S68A)
- [Curiosity Nano Base for Click Boards](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/AC164162)
- [MikroElektronika GSM GPS Click](https://www.mikroe.com/gsm-gps-click)
- [GSM Antenna](https://www.mikroe.com/gsm-sma-cable-2m)
- [Active GPS Antenna](https://www.mikroe.com/active-gps)

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:</span>  

Refer [Project Manifest](./firmware/src/config/sam_e51_cnano/harmony-manifest-success.yml) present in harmony-manifest-success.yml under the project folder *firmware/src/config/sam_e51_cnano*  
- Refer the [Release Notes](../../../../release_notes.md#development-tools) to know the {}MPLAB X IDE{} and {}MCC{} Plugin version. Alternatively, [Click Here](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/blob/master/release_notes.md#development-tools) 
- Any Serial Terminal application like Tera Term terminal application.

<span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommended to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with. </span> To download original version of MPLAB Harmony v3 packages, refer to document [How to Use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Project Manifest Feature](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How-to-Use-the-MPLAB-Harmony-v3-Project-Manifest-Feature-DS90003305.pdf)

## Setup:
- Connect the SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit to the Host PC as a USB Device through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B USB (Debug USB) port

  <img src = "images/gps_gsm_click_demo_setup.png" align="middle">

## Programming hex file:

**Note:** The prebuilt hex file is configured to send SMS to a mobile phone number mentioned in gsm_gps_example.h (Macro - GSM_GPS_EXAMPLE_USER_MOBILE_NUMBER)

The pre-built hex file can be programmed by following the below steps.  

### Steps to program the hex file
- Open MPLAB X IDE
- Close all existing projects in IDE, if any project is opened.
- Go to File -> Import -> Hex/ELF File
- In the "Import Image File" window, Step 1 - Create Prebuilt Project, Click the "Browse" button to select the prebuilt hex file.
- Select Device has "ATSAME51J20A"
- Ensure the proper tool is selected under "Hardware Tool"
- Click on Next button
- In the "Import Image File" window, Step 2 - Select Project Name and Folder, select appropriate project name and folder
- Click on Finish button
- In MPLAB X IDE, click on "Make and Program Device" Button. The device gets programmed in sometime
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Configure Mobile Phone Number:
- Open the project (gsm_gps/firmware/sam_e51_cnano.X) in MPLAB X IDE
- Open header file gsm_gps_example.h  

	<img src = "images/mobile_config.png" align="middle">  
- Define the macro to your mobile phone number preceded by country code.  
	For example, Below is the macro definition to configure an Indian mobile phone number "1234567890"  

	<img src = "images/mobile_config_macro.png" align="middle">  

	**Note:** "+91" is the country code for India in the above screenshot and "1234567890" is a dummy phone number.

## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Ensure the project (gsm_gps/firmware/sam_e51_cnano.X) is open in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "SAM E51 Curiosity Nano" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Open the Tera Term terminal application on your PC (from the Windows® Start menu by pressing the Start button)
- Set the baud rate to 115200
- Follow instructions on the screen to send SMS to the configured mobile phone

	<img src = "images/gps_gsm_click_demo_run.png" align="middle">

**Note:** The message "Location information not found yet! Try Again" appears when the GPS receiver hasn't yet acquired and tracked satellites to provide position information.

## Instructions to add GSM GPS functionality to your application:

You could use this demonstration as an example to add GSM GPS functionality to your MPLAB Harmony v3 based application. Follow the below steps.  
1. If you haven't downloaded the GSM GPS demo yet [Click Here](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/releases/latest/download/gsm_gps.zip) to download, otherwise go to next step
2. Unzip the downloaded .zip file  
3. From the unzipped folder gsm_gps/firmware/src, copy the folder **click_routines** to the folder firmware/src under your MPLAB Harmony v3 application project  
4. Open MPLAB X IDE  
5. Open your application project  
6. In the project explorer, Right click on folder **Header Files**  
   and add a sub folder **click_routines** by selecting "Add Existing Items from Folders..."  
	 <img src = "images/header_add.png">  

- Click on "Add Folder..." button  
	<img src = "images/header_add2.png">  

- Select the "click_routines" folder and select "Files of Types" as Header Files  
	<img src = "images/header_add3.png">

- Click on "Add" button to add the selected folder  
	<img src = "images/header_add4.png">

- The GSM GPS click example header files gets added to your project  
	<img src = "images/header_add5.png">

7. In the project explorer, Right click on folder **Source Files**  
   and add a sub folder **click_routines** by selecting "Add Existing Items from Folders..."   
	 <img src = "images/source_add.png">  

 - Click on "Add Folder..." button  
 	<img src = "images/source_add2.png">  

 - Select the "click_routines" folder and select "Files of Types" as Source Files  
 	<img src = "images/source_add3.png">

 - Click on "Add" button to add the selected folder  
 	<img src = "images/source_add4.png">

 - The GSM GPS click example source files gets added to your project  
 	<img src = "images/source_add5.png">

8. The GSM GPS click example uses the **USART** and **Timer** peripherals. The configuration of these peripherals for your application depends on the 32-bit MCU and development board you are using.

	- **Configure USART**:
 		- Add the USART peripheral block to the MCC project graph  
		- Configure USART Pins using MCC Pin configuration Window  
		The USART configuration depends on
 			- 32-bit MCU
 			- 32-bit MCU development board
 			- The socket on which you have mounted the Heart Rate 9 click board  
 		*Example: The GSM GPS click example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit uses mikroBUS socket #1 on the Curiosity Nano Base for Click boards to mount the GSM GPS click board. The USART lines from MCU coming to this socket are from the SERCOM4 peripheral on the MCU.*  
		*MCC Project Graph - USART configuration*  
		<img src = "images/usart_config.png">  

		*MCC Pin Configurator - USART pin configuration*  
		<img src = "images/usart_pins.png">  

	- **Configure GSM GPS Click Reset Pin**:
 		- Configure GSM GPS Click Reset Pin using MCC Pin configuration Window  
		The Power Pin configuration depends on
 			- The socket on which you have mounted the GSM GPS click board  
 		*Example: The GSM GPS click example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit uses mikroBUS socket #1 on the Curiosity Nano Base for Click boards to mount the GSM GPS click board. The Power Pin line from the GSM GPS Click coming to this socket is PA07 on the MCU.*  
		*MCC Pin Configurator - Power pin configuration*  
		<img src = "images/gsm_gps_click_power_pin.png">  

	- **Configure Timer**:
		- Configure Timer peripheral block in the MCC project graph  
		The Timer configuration depends on
 			- 32-bit MCU  
		*Example: The GSM GPS click example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit uses SysTick timer module on the MCU to implement the time requirement of GSM GPS click routines.*  
		*MCC Project Graph - SysTick configuration*  
		<img src = "images/systick_configure.png">  

	- **Map Generic Macros**:
		- After generating the project, following the above configuration, map the generic macros used in the click routines to the Harmony PLIB APIs of the 32-bit MCU your project is running on
		- The generic macros should be mapped in the header file click_interface.h  

			<img src = "images/click_inter.png">  			
		*Example: The GSM GPS click routines for the example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit uses the following Harmony PLIB APIs*  			
		<img src = "images/map_click.png">

9. The **click_routines** folder contain an example C source file **gsm_gps_example.c**. You could use **gsm_gps_example.c** as a reference to add GSM GPS functionality to your application.

## Comments:
- Reference Training Module:  
	1. [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D5x/E5x MCUs](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:same54-getting-started-training-module)
	2. [Low Power Application on SAM E54 (Arm® Cortex® M4) MCUs Using MPLAB® Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:low-power-application-on-sam-e54)
	3. [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E54 MCUs Using FreeRTOS](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:same54-getting-started-tm-drivers-freertos)

- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony.
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Setup_MPLAB_%20Harmony_v3_Software_Development_Framework_DS90003232C.pdf)
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)

## Revision:
- v1.5.0 Removed MHC support, Regenerated and tested application.
- v1.4.0 Added MCC support, Regenerated and tested application.
- v1.3.0 - Created application example

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated readme with a note on MCC M32MM-1620

apps/sam_e51_cnano/same51n_mikroe_click/gsm_gps/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Reference Applications
parent: SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit
title: GSM GPS Click Example
nav_order: 16
---

<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# GSM GPS Click example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit
<h2 align="center"> <a href="https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/releases/latest/download/gsm_gps.zip" > Download </a> </h2>

-----
## Description:

> The application demonstrates sending out a location-tagged SMS on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit using GSM GPS Click board.

 ## Modules/Technology Used:
- Peripheral Modules
	- EIC
	- SYSTICK
	- GPIO
	- SERCOM (USART)

## Hardware Used:

- [SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/EV76S68A)
- [Curiosity Nano Base for Click Boards](https://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails/AC164162)
- [MikroElektronika GSM GPS Click](https://www.mikroe.com/gsm-gps-click)
- [GSM Antenna](https://www.mikroe.com/gsm-sma-cable-2m)
- [Active GPS Antenna](https://www.mikroe.com/active-gps)

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:</span>  

Refer [Project Manifest](./firmware/src/config/sam_e51_cnano/harmony-manifest-success.yml) present in harmony-manifest-success.yml under the project folder *firmware/src/config/sam_e51_cnano*  
- Refer the [Release Notes](../../../../release_notes.md#development-tools) to know the {}MPLAB X IDE{} and {}MCC{} Plugin version. Alternatively, [Click Here](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/blob/master/release_notes.md#development-tools) 
- Any Serial Terminal application like Tera Term terminal application.

<span style="color:blue"> Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommended to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with. </span> To download original version of MPLAB Harmony v3 packages, refer to document [How to Use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Project Manifest Feature](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How-to-Use-the-MPLAB-Harmony-v3-Project-Manifest-Feature-DS90003305.pdf)

## Setup:
- Connect the SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit to the Host PC as a USB Device through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B USB (Debug USB) port

  <img src = "images/gps_gsm_click_demo_setup.png" align="middle">

## Programming hex file:

**Note:** The prebuilt hex file is configured to send SMS to a mobile phone number mentioned in gsm_gps_example.h (Macro - GSM_GPS_EXAMPLE_USER_MOBILE_NUMBER)

The pre-built hex file can be programmed by following the below steps.  

### Steps to program the hex file
- Open MPLAB X IDE
- Close all existing projects in IDE, if any project is opened.
- Go to File -> Import -> Hex/ELF File
- In the "Import Image File" window, Step 1 - Create Prebuilt Project, Click the "Browse" button to select the prebuilt hex file.
- Select Device has "ATSAME51J20A"
- Ensure the proper tool is selected under "Hardware Tool"
- Click on Next button
- In the "Import Image File" window, Step 2 - Select Project Name and Folder, select appropriate project name and folder
- Click on Finish button
- In MPLAB X IDE, click on "Make and Program Device" Button. The device gets programmed in sometime
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Configure Mobile Phone Number:
- Open the project (gsm_gps/firmware/sam_e51_cnano.X) in MPLAB X IDE
- Open header file gsm_gps_example.h  

	<img src = "images/mobile_config.png" align="middle">  
- Define the macro to your mobile phone number preceded by country code.  
	For example, Below is the macro definition to configure an Indian mobile phone number "1234567890"  

	<img src = "images/mobile_config_macro.png" align="middle">  

	**Note:** "+91" is the country code for India in the above screenshot and "1234567890" is a dummy phone number.

## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Ensure the project (gsm_gps/firmware/sam_e51_cnano.X) is open in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "SAM E51 Curiosity Nano" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Open the Tera Term terminal application on your PC (from the Windows® Start menu by pressing the Start button)
- Set the baud rate to 115200
- Follow instructions on the screen to send SMS to the configured mobile phone

	<img src = "images/gps_gsm_click_demo_run.png" align="middle">

**Note:** The message "Location information not found yet! Try Again" appears when the GPS receiver hasn't yet acquired and tracked satellites to provide position information.

## Instructions to add GSM GPS functionality to your application:

You could use this demonstration as an example to add GSM GPS functionality to your MPLAB Harmony v3 based application. Follow the below steps.  
1. If you haven't downloaded the GSM GPS demo yet [Click Here](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/releases/latest/download/gsm_gps.zip) to download, otherwise go to next step
2. Unzip the downloaded .zip file  
3. From the unzipped folder gsm_gps/firmware/src, copy the folder **click_routines** to the folder firmware/src under your MPLAB Harmony v3 application project  
4. Open MPLAB X IDE  
5. Open your application project  
6. In the project explorer, Right click on folder **Header Files**  
   and add a sub folder **click_routines** by selecting "Add Existing Items from Folders..."  
	 <img src = "images/header_add.png">  

- Click on "Add Folder..." button  
	<img src = "images/header_add2.png">  

- Select the "click_routines" folder and select "Files of Types" as Header Files  
	<img src = "images/header_add3.png">

- Click on "Add" button to add the selected folder  
	<img src = "images/header_add4.png">

- The GSM GPS click example header files gets added to your project  
	<img src = "images/header_add5.png">

7. In the project explorer, Right click on folder **Source Files**  
   and add a sub folder **click_routines** by selecting "Add Existing Items from Folders..."   
	 <img src = "images/source_add.png">  

 - Click on "Add Folder..." button  
 	<img src = "images/source_add2.png">  

 - Select the "click_routines" folder and select "Files of Types" as Source Files  
 	<img src = "images/source_add3.png">

 - Click on "Add" button to add the selected folder  
 	<img src = "images/source_add4.png">

 - The GSM GPS click example source files gets added to your project  
 	<img src = "images/source_add5.png">

8. The GSM GPS click example uses the **USART** and **Timer** peripherals. The configuration of these peripherals for your application depends on the 32-bit MCU and development board you are using.

	- **Configure USART**:
 		- Add the USART peripheral block to the MCC project graph  
		- Configure USART Pins using MCC Pin configuration Window  
		The USART configuration depends on
 			- 32-bit MCU
 			- 32-bit MCU development board
 			- The socket on which you have mounted the Heart Rate 9 click board  
 		*Example: The GSM GPS click example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit uses mikroBUS socket #1 on the Curiosity Nano Base for Click boards to mount the GSM GPS click board. The USART lines from MCU coming to this socket are from the SERCOM4 peripheral on the MCU.*  
		*MCC Project Graph - USART configuration*  
		<img src = "images/usart_config.png">  

		*MCC Pin Configurator - USART pin configuration*  
		<img src = "images/usart_pins.png">  

	- **Configure GSM GPS Click Reset Pin**:
 		- Configure GSM GPS Click Reset Pin using MCC Pin configuration Window  
		The Power Pin configuration depends on
 			- The socket on which you have mounted the GSM GPS click board  
 		*Example: The GSM GPS click example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit uses mikroBUS socket #1 on the Curiosity Nano Base for Click boards to mount the GSM GPS click board. The Power Pin line from the GSM GPS Click coming to this socket is PA07 on the MCU.*  
		*MCC Pin Configurator - Power pin configuration*  
		<img src = "images/gsm_gps_click_power_pin.png">  

	- **Configure Timer**:
		- Configure Timer peripheral block in the MCC project graph  
		The Timer configuration depends on
 			- 32-bit MCU  
		*Example: The GSM GPS click example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit uses SysTick timer module on the MCU to implement the time requirement of GSM GPS click routines.*  
		*MCC Project Graph - SysTick configuration*  
		<img src = "images/systick_configure.png">  

	- **Map Generic Macros**:
		- After generating the project, following the above configuration, map the generic macros used in the click routines to the Harmony PLIB APIs of the 32-bit MCU your project is running on
		- The generic macros should be mapped in the header file click_interface.h  

			<img src = "images/click_inter.png">  			
		*Example: The GSM GPS click routines for the example on SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit uses the following Harmony PLIB APIs*  			
		<img src = "images/map_click.png">

9. The **click_routines** folder contain an example C source file **gsm_gps_example.c**. You could use **gsm_gps_example.c** as a reference to add GSM GPS functionality to your application.

## Comments:
- Reference Training Module:  
	1. [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries on SAM D5x/E5x MCUs](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:same54-getting-started-training-module)
	2. [Low Power Application on SAM E54 (Arm® Cortex® M4) MCUs Using MPLAB® Harmony v3 Peripheral Libraries](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:low-power-application-on-sam-e54)
	3. [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E54 MCUs Using FreeRTOS](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:same54-getting-started-tm-drivers-freertos)

- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony.
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Setup_MPLAB_%20Harmony_v3_Software_Development_Framework_DS90003232C.pdf)
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)
	- <span style="color:blue"> **MPLAB Harmony v3 is also configurable through MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC). Refer to the below links for specific instructions to use MPLAB Harmony v3 with MCC.**</span>
		- [Create a new MPLAB Harmony v3 project using MCC](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:getting-started-training-module-using-mcc)
		- [Update and Configure an Existing MHC-based MPLAB Harmony v3 Project to MCC-based Project](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:update-and-configure-existing-mhc-proj-to-mcc-proj)
		- [Getting Started with MPLAB Harmony v3 Using MPLAB Code Configurator](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdhltTWaDp0)
		- [MPLAB Code Configurator Content Manager for MPLAB Harmony v3 Projects](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PRewTzrI3iE)	

## Revision:
- v1.5.0 Removed MHC support, Regenerated and tested application.
- v1.4.0 Added MCC support, Regenerated and tested application.
- v1.3.0 - Created application example
