apps/pic32mz_ef_sk+meb2/audio_player/audio_player_lab2/docs/readme.md, before:


![Microchip logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/images/microchip_logo.png)
![Harmony logo small](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png)
# Audio-Tone Application by reading the tone from a text file stored in an SD card on PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU Starter Kit + Multimedia Expansion Board II
-----

## Description

> The application reads an audio text file from the PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) SD card and
  streams it over the PIC32 I²S interface to the audio CODEC. The audio file is saved as a .txt file with 
  comma-separated left and right channel audio data
  
## Modules/Technology Used:

- Peripheral Modules  
	- I2C
	- I2S
	- Timer
	- Core Timer	
- Drivers
	- I2S Driver
	- I2C Driver	
	- AK4953 Driver	
	- SDCARD (SPI) Driver
- BSP Library
	- PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit BSP
- System Services
	- File System

## Hardware Used:

- [PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit](http://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails.aspx?PartNO=DM320007)   
- [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5)  
**Note:** This application is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their 
application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not 
available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> *This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:*</span>  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.6.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.6.1)  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "bsp" repository v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/bsp/releases/tag/v3.6.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "audio" repository v3.5.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio/releases/tag/v3.5.0) 
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.3.5](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.3.5)   
 -  MPLAB Harmony Configurator Plugin v3.4.2 
 - [MPLAB X IDE v5.35](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
 - [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v2.40](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)
 - [MPLAB X IPE v5.35](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-integrated-programming-environment)  
<span style="color:blue"> *Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommend to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with.* </span>  

## Setup:  
- Connect the PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit to the Host PC as a USB Device 
  through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B USB (Debug USB) port.
- Connect the wired stereo headphone to the audio jack  
<img src = "images/hardware_setup.png" width="700" height="525" align="middle">
  
**Note:**
It is not necessary to have an MPLAB Real ICE™ to program/debug the code. The PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit 
includes a PICkit™ on-board (PKOB) debugger. The PKOB debugger can be connected to a host PC through 
the USB Mini-B connector on the PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit for programming/debugging 
(see the red cable in the hardware setup).  

## Programming binary/hex file:  
If you are not interested in installing development tools. The pre-built binary/hex file can be programmed to the target.
### Steps to program the hex file using MPLAB X IPE
- Open MPLAB X IPE
- Select Device has "PIC32MZ2048EFH144"
- Power the PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU Starter Kit from a Host PC through a Type-A male to Micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port
- Once Power cable is connected, "PKOB" hardware tool is identified as a programmer
- Browse to hex file (audio_player_lab1_hex_file.hex)
- Click on program button. The device gets programmed in sometime
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Open the project (audio_player_lab1\firmware\audio_player_lab1.X) in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "PKOB" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Insert the micro SD card into the micro SD card slot (J8) on the MEB II Board.
- Program the micro SD card with the audio text file (tone.txt) by copying it from folder audio_player_lab2\firmware and paste into the micro SD card
- Connect a headphone to the HP Out connector on the Multimedia Expansion Board II
- Wear the headphone and you should hear a tone.

## Comments:
- Reference Training Module: [Lab 2: Audio-Tone Generation from a Text File Stored in an SD Card with Harmony v3](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab2)
- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony. 
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en1000821) 
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)  
- The application is available on MPLAB Harmony v3 GitHub repository [reference_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/tree/master/apps/pic32mz_ef_sk+meb2/audio_player/audio_player_lab2)
	
## Revision: 
- v1.0 released demo application

Commit message:

[APPS_DOCS] Updated MPLAB Harmony 3 reference_apps repository documentation according to Harmony 3 next gen documentation format. M32MM-451

apps/pic32mz_ef_sk+meb2/audio_player/audio_player_lab2/docs/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Reference Application Examples
parent: PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit + MEB-II Reference Application Examples
title: Audio-Tone Application by reading the tone from a text file stored in an SD card
nav_order: 4
---
<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# Audio-Tone Application by reading the tone from a text file stored in an SD card on PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU Starter Kit + Multimedia Expansion Board II
-----

## Description

> The application reads an audio text file from the PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) SD card and
  streams it over the PIC32 I²S interface to the audio CODEC. The audio file is saved as a .txt file with 
  comma-separated left and right channel audio data
  
## Modules/Technology Used:

- Peripheral Modules  
	- I2C
	- I2S
	- Timer
	- Core Timer	
- Drivers
	- I2S Driver
	- I2C Driver	
	- AK4953 Driver	
	- SDCARD (SPI) Driver
- BSP Library
	- PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit BSP
- System Services
	- File System

## Hardware Used:

- [PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit](http://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails.aspx?PartNO=DM320007)   
- [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5)  
**Note:** This application is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their 
application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not 
available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> *This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:*</span>  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.6.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.6.1)  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "bsp" repository v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/bsp/releases/tag/v3.6.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "audio" repository v3.5.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio/releases/tag/v3.5.0) 
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.3.5](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.3.5)   
 -  MPLAB Harmony Configurator Plugin v3.4.2 
 - [MPLAB X IDE v5.35](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
 - [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v2.40](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)
 - [MPLAB X IPE v5.35](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-integrated-programming-environment)  
<span style="color:blue"> *Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommended to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with.* </span>  

## Setup:  
- Connect the PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit to the Host PC as a USB Device 
  through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B USB (Debug USB) port.
- Connect the wired stereo headphone to the audio jack  
<img src = "images/hardware_setup.png" width="700" height="525" align="middle">
  
**Note:**
It is not necessary to have an MPLAB Real ICE™ to program/debug the code. The PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit 
includes a PICkit™ on-board (PKOB) debugger. The PKOB debugger can be connected to a host PC through 
the USB Mini-B connector on the PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit for programming/debugging 
(see the red cable in the hardware setup).  

## Programming binary/hex file:  
If you are not interested in installing development tools. The pre-built binary/hex file can be programmed to the target.
### Steps to program the hex file using MPLAB X IPE
- Open MPLAB X IPE
- Select Device has "PIC32MZ2048EFH144"
- Power the PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU Starter Kit from a Host PC through a Type-A male to Micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port
- Once Power cable is connected, "PKOB" hardware tool is identified as a programmer
- Browse to hex file (audio_player_lab1_hex_file.hex)
- Click on program button. The device gets programmed in sometime
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Open the project (audio_player_lab1\firmware\audio_player_lab1.X) in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "PKOB" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Insert the micro SD card into the micro SD card slot (J8) on the MEB II Board.
- Program the micro SD card with the audio text file (tone.txt) by copying it from folder audio_player_lab2\firmware and paste into the micro SD card
- Connect a headphone to the HP Out connector on the Multimedia Expansion Board II
- Wear the headphone and you should hear a tone.

## Comments:
- Reference Training Module: [Lab 2: Audio-Tone Generation from a Text File Stored in an SD Card with Harmony v3](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab2)
- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony. 
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en1000821) 
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)  
- The application is available on MPLAB Harmony v3 GitHub repository [reference_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/tree/master/apps/pic32mz_ef_sk+meb2/audio_player/audio_player_lab2)
	
## Revision: 
- v1.0 released demo application
