apps/sam_e51_cnano/readme.md, before:

---
title: SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit
parent: Reference Applications
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 2
---
# SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit

This folder contains the MPLAB® Harmony 3 reference applications developed on [SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/EV76S68A).   

* [Getting Started](./same51n_getting_started/readme.md)
* [BLE Fitness Tracker](./ble_fitness_tracker/readme.md)

### **Note:**
The applications in this repository are an alternative source of reference involving integration of multiple technologies, extending hardware capabilities and demonstrating specific MCU features.
Peripheral/Technology specific applications are available in technology repositories like [csp](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp), [core](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core), [usb](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb), [net](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/net), [audio](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio), [gfx_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx_apps), [bt](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/bt), etc

Commit message:

[DOCS] Updated demo list in board specific readme.md. M32MM-451

apps/sam_e51_cnano/readme.md, after:

---
title: SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit
parent: Reference Applications
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 2
---
# SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit

This folder contains the MPLAB® Harmony 3 reference applications developed on [SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/PartNO/EV76S68A).   

|SI No| Demo Name | Download Link |
| --- | --- | -- |
| 1 | [Getting Started](./same51n_getting_started/readme.md) | [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/same51n_getting_started.zip) |
| 2 | [BLE Fitness Tracker](./ble_fitness_tracker/readme.md) | [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/ble_fitness_tracker.zip) |

### More Application Demos

Following is the list of application demos on **SAM E51 Curiosity Nano Evaluation Kit** and other Development Boards/Kits having the same part number **(ATSAME51J20A)** in MPLAB Harmony v3 Repositories.

**Note:** To get a demo listed below, go to the main page of the repository (Click on the Repo Name) and then click **Code** button to clone or download as zip file. The repo can also be downloaded using **MPLAB Harmony Content Manager** by following [these](https://microchip-mplab-harmony.github.io/contentmanager/) instructions.  



[comment]:#ListStart

<span style = "color:red"> **No Repos** </span>



[comment]:#ListEnd
