apps/sam_d21_iot/google_cloud_iot_core/utilities/readme.md, before:

---
grand_parent: Reference Applications
parent: SAM D21 IoT Development Board
title: ATWINC1510 Firmware upgrade
nav_order: 98
---

<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# ATWINC1510 Firmware upgrade and Google Cloud IoT Provisioning (Root certificate upgrade) Guide

## Description:

> The SAM-IoT WG Development Application uses ATWINC1510-MR210PB IEEE 802.11 b/g/n module to enable cloud connectivity. The application's functioning requires the ATWINC1510 module to have firmware compatible with the WiFi software stack running on the SAM-IoT microcontroller. To enable this compatibility, the  ATWINC1510 module is updated with the firmware compatible with WiFi software running in the latest released demo.  

> The root certificates to identify the IoT node to the Google cloud platform are programmed in the non-volatile memory of the ATWINC1510 module.  

[Serial Bridge Application to upgrade ATWINC1510 Firmware and Google Cloud IoT Provisioning](./gcp_iot_provisioning_serial_bridge/readme.md)


## <span style="color:blue"> *Complete the above highlighted step before proceeding further* </span>

## Running the utility
- Download and extract [samd21_gcp_iot_winc_provisioning](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/releases/latest/download/samd21_gcp_iot_winc_provisioning.zip
) into utilities folder
- Open command prompt and navigate to **"utilities/samd21_gcp_iot_winc_provisioning"**
- The following command line will generate a device programming file winc1500_19.7.6.prog.

  **image_tool.exe -c winc1500_19.7.6\config.txt -o winc1500_19.7.6.prog -of prog**  

- The file produced can be used to upgrade a WINC1500 to version 19.7.6 including the firmware, HTTP files and root
certificates.
- The following command line will program a WINC1500 device via the serial port   
    **winc_programmer -p COM29 -d winc1500 -i winc1500_19.7.6.prog -if prog -w -r -pfw winc1500_19.7.6\firmware\programmer_firmware.bin**

    **NOTE** : Respective device COM PORT should be selected in above command and all other serial terminal application should be closed
- Wait till **verify passed** message comes up as shown below  
<img src = "images/firmware_upg.png" align="middle" width = 500>

### Revision:
-v1.4.0 WINC Updated with firmware version 19.7.6
- v1.3.0 released utility

Commit message:

[APP_DOCS] Regenerated and tested GCP SAMIOT application
M32MM-1631

Signed-off-by: Mohan Kumar RP <mohan.kumar@microchip.com>

apps/sam_d21_iot/google_cloud_iot_core/utilities/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Reference Applications
parent: SAM D21 IoT Development Board
title: ATWINC1510 Firmware upgrade
nav_order: 98
---

<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# ATWINC1510 Firmware upgrade and Google Cloud IoT Provisioning (Root certificate upgrade) Guide

## Description:

> The SAM-IoT WG Development Application uses ATWINC1510-MR210PB IEEE 802.11 b/g/n module to enable cloud connectivity. The application's functioning requires the ATWINC1510 module to have firmware compatible with the WiFi software stack running on the SAM-IoT microcontroller. To enable this compatibility, the  ATWINC1510 module is updated with the firmware compatible with WiFi software running in the latest released demo.  

> The root certificates to identify the IoT node to the Google cloud platform are programmed in the non-volatile memory of the ATWINC1510 module.  

[Serial Bridge Application to upgrade ATWINC1510 Firmware and Google Cloud IoT Provisioning](./gcp_iot_provisioning_serial_bridge/readme.md)


## <span style="color:blue"> *Complete the above highlighted step before proceeding further* </span>

## Running the utility
- Download and extract [samd21_gcp_iot_winc_provisioning](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/releases/latest/download/samd21_gcp_iot_winc_provisioning.zip
) into utilities folder
- Open command prompt and navigate to **"utilities/samd21_gcp_iot_winc_provisioning"**
- The following command line will generate a device programming file winc1500_19.7.6.prog.

  **image_tool.exe -c winc1500_19.7.6\config.txt -o winc1500_19.7.6.prog -of prog**  

- The file produced can be used to upgrade a WINC1500 to version 19.7.6 including the firmware, HTTP files and root
certificates.
- The following command line will program a WINC1500 device via the serial port   
    **winc_programmer -p COM29 -d winc1500 -i winc1500_19.7.6.prog -if prog -w -r -pfw winc1500_19.7.6\firmware\programmer_firmware.bin**

    **NOTE** : Respective device COM PORT should be selected in above command and all other serial terminal application should be closed
- Wait till **verify passed** message comes up as shown below  
<img src = "images/firmware_upg.png" align="middle" width = 500>

### Revision:
- v1.5.0 - Removed MHC support, Regenerated and tested application.
- v1.4.0 WINC Updated with firmware version 19.7.6
- v1.3.0 released utility
