apps/pic32mz_ef_sk+meb2/audio_player/audio_player_lab5/docs/readme.md, before:


![Microchip logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/images/microchip_logo.png)
![Harmony logo small](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png)
# SD Card Audio Player/Reader with Aria Graphics on PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU Starter Kit + Multimedia Expansion Board II
-----

## Description

> This application reads a WAV audio file from the SD card on the PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board (MEB) II and streams 
  it over the PIC32 I²S interface through the audio CODEC. The application implements the functionality of an audio player 
  (for WAV files only). 
> The application displays audio tracks from the SD card in a list box. It allows to navigate the list to select and play a track. 
  It also provides a volume increase/decrease scroll bar and a mute on/off button.
  
## Modules/Technology Used:

- Peripheral Modules  
	- I2C
	- I2S
	- Timer
	- Core Timer	
- Drivers
	- I2S Driver
	- I2C Driver	
	- AK4953 Driver	
	- SDCARD (SPI) Driver
	- USB High Speed Driver
	- MSD Function Driver
	- Aria Graphis Display driver w/ PDA TM4301B
	- Max Touch Controller Driver
- BSP Library
	- PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit BSP
- Audio Decoder Libraries
	- WAV Decoder Library
- System Services
	- File System
	- Input System
- Middleware
	- USB device layer
	- Aria Graphics

## Hardware Used:

- [PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit](http://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails.aspx?PartNO=DM320007)   
- [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5)  
**Note:** This application is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their 
application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not 
available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> *This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:*</span>  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.6.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.6.1)  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "bsp" repository v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/bsp/releases/tag/v3.6.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "audio" repository v3.5.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio/releases/tag/v3.5.0) 
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "usb" repository v3.4.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb/releases/tag/v3.4.0)     
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "gfx" repository v3.6.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx/releases/tag/v3.6.0)  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "touch" repository v3.6.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/touch/releases/tag/v3.6.0)   
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.3.5](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.3.5)    
 -  MPLAB Harmony Configurator Plugin v3.4.2 
 - [MPLAB X IDE v5.35](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
 - [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v2.40](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)
 - [MPLAB X IPE v5.35](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-integrated-programming-environment)  
<span style="color:blue"> *Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommend to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with.* </span>  

## Setup:  
- Connect the PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit to the Host PC as a USB Device 
  through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B USB (Debug USB) port.
- Connect the wired stereo headphone to the audio jack  
<img src = "images/hardware_setup.png" width="700" height="525" align="middle">
  
**Note:**
It is not necessary to have an MPLAB Real ICE™ to program/debug the code. The PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit 
includes a PICkit™ on-board (PKOB) debugger. The PKOB debugger can be connected to a host PC through 
the USB Mini-B connector on the PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit for programming/debugging 
(see the red cable in the hardware setup).  

## Programming binary/hex file:  
If you are not interested in installing development tools. The pre-built binary/hex file can be programmed to the target.
### Steps to program the hex file using MPLAB X IPE
- Open MPLAB X IPE
- Select Device has "PIC32MZ2048EFH144"
- Power the PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU Starter Kit from a Host PC through a Type-A male to Micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port
- Once Power cable is connected, "PKOB" hardware tool is identified as a programmer
- Browse to hex file (audio_player_lab5_hex_file.hex)
- Click on program button. The device gets programmed in sometime
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Open the project (audio_player_lab5\firmware\audio_player_lab5.X) in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "PKOB" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Make sure that the micro SD card has at least one audio file saved on it.
- You can copy audio files: Go to the folder "audio_player_lab5\firmware\sample_audio" and copy a few sample WAV files to the micro SD card
- Insert the micro SD card into the micro SD card slot (J8) on the MEB II
- You should see a display as shown below  
<img src = "images/display_picture.png" width="460" height="260" align="middle">
- Connect a headphone to the HP Out connector on the MEB II and listen to your favorite music. Notice the track ist will scroll as the tracks get played out one after the other.
- You may load more WAV audio files by switching to the USB SD card reader mode (by pressing the switch S1 on the MEB II). After loading, switch back to the player mode and you should hear the newly added audio tracks to the SD card

## Comments:
- Reference Training Module: [Lab 5: Display Graphics Support to Select and Play Audio File](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab5)
- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony. 
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en1000821) 
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)  
- The application is available on MPLAB Harmony v3 GitHub repository [reference_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/tree/master/apps/pic32mz_ef_sk+meb2/audio_player/audio_player_lab5)
	
## Revision: 
- v1.0 released demo application

Commit message:

[APPS_DOCS] Updated MPLAB Harmony 3 reference_apps repository documentation according to Harmony 3 next gen documentation format. M32MM-451

apps/pic32mz_ef_sk+meb2/audio_player/audio_player_lab5/docs/readme.md, after:

---
grand_parent: Reference Application Examples
parent: PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit + MEB-II Reference Application Examples
title: SD Card Audio Player/Reader with Aria Graphics
nav_order: 4
---
<img src = "images/microchip_logo.png">
<img src = "images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png">

# SD Card Audio Player/Reader with Aria Graphics on PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU Starter Kit + Multimedia Expansion Board II
-----

## Description

> This application reads a WAV audio file from the SD card on the PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board (MEB) II and streams 
  it over the PIC32 I²S interface through the audio CODEC. The application implements the functionality of an audio player 
  (for WAV files only). 
> The application displays audio tracks from the SD card in a list box. It allows to navigate the list to select and play a track. 
  It also provides a volume increase/decrease scroll bar and a mute on/off button.
  
## Modules/Technology Used:

- Peripheral Modules  
	- I2C
	- I2S
	- Timer
	- Core Timer	
- Drivers
	- I2S Driver
	- I2C Driver	
	- AK4953 Driver	
	- SDCARD (SPI) Driver
	- USB High Speed Driver
	- MSD Function Driver
	- Aria Graphis Display driver w/ PDA TM4301B
	- Max Touch Controller Driver
- BSP Library
	- PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit BSP
- Audio Decoder Libraries
	- WAV Decoder Library
- System Services
	- File System
	- Input System
- Middleware
	- USB device layer
	- Aria Graphics

## Hardware Used:

- [PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit](http://www.microchip.com/Developmenttools/ProductDetails.aspx?PartNO=DM320007)   
- [PIC32 Multimedia Expansion Board II](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/DM320005-5)  
**Note:** This application is a reference only to the existing users of Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) to port/develop their 
application(s) using MPLAB Harmony v3 as the Multimedia Expansion Board II (MEB II) is now a matured product and the same is not 
available for purchase from Microchip Direct.

## Software/Tools Used:
<span style="color:blue"> *This project has been verified to work with the following versions of software tools:*</span>  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "csp" repo v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/csp/releases/tag/v3.6.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "dev_packs" repo v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/dev_packs/releases/tag/v3.6.1)  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "bsp" repository v3.6.1](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/bsp/releases/tag/v3.6.1)
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "audio" repository v3.5.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/audio/releases/tag/v3.5.0) 
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "usb" repository v3.4.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb/releases/tag/v3.4.0)     
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "gfx" repository v3.6.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/gfx/releases/tag/v3.6.0)  
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "touch" repository v3.6.0](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/touch/releases/tag/v3.6.0)   
 - [MPLAB Harmony v3 "mhc" repo v3.3.5](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/mhc/releases/tag/v3.3.5)    
 -  MPLAB Harmony Configurator Plugin v3.4.2 
 - [MPLAB X IDE v5.35](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
 - [MPLAB XC32 Compiler v2.40](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/compilers)
 - [MPLAB X IPE v5.35](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-integrated-programming-environment)  
<span style="color:blue"> *Because Microchip regularly update tools, occasionally issue(s) could be discovered while using the newer versions of the tools. If the project doesn’t seem to work and version incompatibility is suspected, It is recommended to double-check and use the same versions that the project was tested with.* </span>  

## Setup:  
- Connect the PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU (EF) Starter Kit to the Host PC as a USB Device 
  through a Type-A male to micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B USB (Debug USB) port.
- Connect the wired stereo headphone to the audio jack  
<img src = "images/hardware_setup.png" width="700" height="525" align="middle">
  
**Note:**
It is not necessary to have an MPLAB Real ICE™ to program/debug the code. The PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit 
includes a PICkit™ on-board (PKOB) debugger. The PKOB debugger can be connected to a host PC through 
the USB Mini-B connector on the PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit for programming/debugging 
(see the red cable in the hardware setup).  

## Programming binary/hex file:  
If you are not interested in installing development tools. The pre-built binary/hex file can be programmed to the target.
### Steps to program the hex file using MPLAB X IPE
- Open MPLAB X IPE
- Select Device has "PIC32MZ2048EFH144"
- Power the PIC32MZ Embedded Connectivity with FPU Starter Kit from a Host PC through a Type-A male to Micro-B USB cable connected to Micro-B port
- Once Power cable is connected, "PKOB" hardware tool is identified as a programmer
- Browse to hex file (audio_player_lab5_hex_file.hex)
- Click on program button. The device gets programmed in sometime
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Programming/Debugging Application Project:
- Open the project (audio_player_lab5\firmware\audio_player_lab5.X) in MPLAB X IDE
- Ensure "PKOB" is selected as hardware tool to program/debug the application
- Build the code and program the device by clicking on the "make and program" button in MPLAB X IDE tool bar
- Follow the steps in "Running the Demo" section below

## Running the Demo:
- Make sure that the micro SD card has at least one audio file saved on it.
- You can copy audio files: Go to the folder "audio_player_lab5\firmware\sample_audio" and copy a few sample WAV files to the micro SD card
- Insert the micro SD card into the micro SD card slot (J8) on the MEB II
- You should see a display as shown below  
<img src = "images/display_picture.png" width="460" height="260" align="middle">
- Connect a headphone to the HP Out connector on the MEB II and listen to your favorite music. Notice the track ist will scroll as the tracks get played out one after the other.
- You may load more WAV audio files by switching to the USB SD card reader mode (by pressing the switch S1 on the MEB II). After loading, switch back to the player mode and you should hear the newly added audio tracks to the SD card

## Comments:
- Reference Training Module: [Lab 5: Display Graphics Support to Select and Play Audio File](https://microchipdeveloper.com/harmony3:audio-player-lab5)
- This application demo builds and works out of box by following the instructions above in "Running the Demo" section. If you need to enhance/customize this application demo, you need to use the MPLAB Harmony v3 Software framework. Refer links below to setup and build your applications using MPLAB Harmony. 
	- [How to Setup MPLAB Harmony v3 Software Development Framework](https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en1000821) 
	- [How to Build an Application by Adding a New PLIB, Driver, or Middleware to an Existing MPLAB Harmony v3 Project](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/How_to_Build_Application_Adding_PLIB_%20Driver_or_Middleware%20_to_MPLAB_Harmony_v3Project_DS90003253A.pdf)  
- The application is available on MPLAB Harmony v3 GitHub repository [reference_apps](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/reference_apps/tree/master/apps/pic32mz_ef_sk+meb2/audio_player/audio_player_lab5)
	
## Revision: 
- v1.0 released demo application
