apps/sam_e54_xpro/readme.md, before:

---
title: SAM E54 Xplained Pro Evaluation Kit
parent: Reference Applications
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 13
---

# SAM E54 Xplained Pro Evaluation Kit

This folder contains the **MPLAB® Harmony 3 reference applications** developed on [SAM E54 Xplained Pro Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/ATSAME54-XPRO).

|SI No| Demo Name | Download Link |
| --- | --- | -- |
| 1 | [Getting Started](./same54_getting_started/readme.md) | [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/same54_getting_started.zip) |
| 2 | [Low Power](./same54_low_power/readme.md) |  [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/same54_low_power.zip) |
| 3 | [SleepWalking](./sleepwalking/readme.md) |  [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/sleepwalking.zip) |
| 4 | [Vending Machine](./same54_vending_machine/readme.md) |  [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/same54_vending_machine.zip) |


### More Application Demos

For more application demos on **SAM E54 Xplained Pro Evalution Kit** and other Development Boards/Kits having the same part number **(ATSAME54P20A)** <a href="" target="_blank"> CLICK HERE </a> (Coming Soon)

Commit message:

[APPS][DOCS][MM_TM_0057] Created and added Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E54 MCU Using FreeRTOS TM demo and documents
M32MM-877

apps/sam_e54_xpro/readme.md, after:

---
title: SAM E54 Xplained Pro Evaluation Kit
parent: Reference Applications
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 13
---

# SAM E54 Xplained Pro Evaluation Kit

This folder contains the **MPLAB® Harmony 3 reference applications** developed on [SAM E54 Xplained Pro Evaluation Kit](https://www.microchip.com/DevelopmentTools/ProductDetails/ATSAME54-XPRO).

|SI No| Demo Name | Download Link |
| --- | --- | -- |
| 1 | [Getting Started](./same54_getting_started/readme.md) | [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/same54_getting_started.zip) |
| 2 | [Low Power](./same54_low_power/readme.md) |  [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/same54_low_power.zip) |
| 3 | [SleepWalking](./sleepwalking/readme.md) |  [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/sleepwalking.zip) |
| 4 | [Vending Machine](./same54_vending_machine/readme.md) |  [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/same54_vending_machine.zip) |
| 5 | [Getting Started with Harmony v3 Drivers on SAM E54 MCU Using FreeRTOS](./same54_getting_started_freertos/readme.md) | [Click Here](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/MPLAB-Harmony-Reference-Apps/releases/latest/download/same54_getting_started_freertos.zip) |


### More Application Demos

For more application demos on **SAM E54 Xplained Pro Evalution Kit** and other Development Boards/Kits having the same part number **(ATSAME54P20A)** <a href="" target="_blank"> CLICK HERE </a> (Coming Soon)
